LINKVAULT — HOW IT WORKS
========================


WHAT IS IT
----------
A personal bookmark manager. You save links, decide which ones are public,
and get a profile page at linkvault.app/@yourname that anyone can visit.
Think of it like a personal link collection you can optionally share.


THE THREE TYPES OF PEOPLE USING IT
-----------------------------------

1. A visitor who found your profile link
   - They open /@harsh in their browser
   - They see your public bookmarks, nothing else
   - No login required, no account needed

2. You, logged in
   - You see all your bookmarks — public AND private
   - You can add, edit, delete, make things public or private
   - Nobody else can see or touch your stuff

3. Someone trying to hack it
   - They grab their own login token
   - They try to call the API directly to read your bookmarks
   - Database returns zero rows — not because the app blocked them
     but because Postgres itself rejects the query


HOW SIGNING UP WORKS
--------------------

You enter email + password on the signup page.

  Browser → Supabase Auth → creates your account
                          → sends confirmation email
                          → on confirm, creates your profile row in database
                          → Resend sends you a welcome email

Your handle (@harsh) is auto-generated from your email when the account
is created. A Postgres trigger fires the moment your user row is created
and inserts a profile row with a cleaned-up version of your email prefix.
You can change it later in Settings.

Nobody else can claim the same handle. There's a unique constraint in the
database that makes it physically impossible — not just a check in the code.


HOW LOGGING IN WORKS
--------------------

You enter email + password.

  Browser → Supabase Auth → checks credentials
                          → returns a JWT (a signed token)
                          → token stored in a cookie

Every page load after that, the middleware reads the cookie, verifies
the token, and either lets you through or sends you to login.

Two places check your session:

  1. Middleware — runs at the edge before the page loads
     Catches 99% of unauthenticated requests immediately

  2. Every server action — re-checks your session before any database write
     So even if someone somehow bypasses middleware, the action rejects them


HOW BOOKMARKS WORK
------------------

Adding a bookmark:

  You fill in the form (title, URL, optional description, public toggle)
  → hits a Server Action (server-side function, not a public API endpoint)
  → validates the input with Zod (checks URL is real, title isn't empty etc)
  → inserts into the bookmarks table with your user_id attached
  → page refreshes automatically via revalidatePath

Editing a bookmark:

  Same flow. The update query has TWO conditions:
    .eq('id', bookmark_id)
    .eq('user_id', your_id)

  Both must match. So even if someone guesses a bookmark UUID, the second
  condition fails and nothing happens. Zero rows updated.

Deleting a bookmark:

  Same double condition. You can only delete rows you own.

Toggling public/private:

  One click flips is_public from true to false or back.
  Instantly appears or disappears from your public profile.


HOW THE PUBLIC PROFILE WORKS
-----------------------------

Someone visits /@harsh

  → Next.js looks up the profiles table for handle = 'harsh'
  → If not found, shows 404
  → If found, queries bookmarks WHERE user_id = harsh's id AND is_public = true
  → Renders the list

No login needed. No session checked. Fully public page.

But here's the important part — the privacy is not enforced by the app
skipping the private bookmarks in code. It's enforced by a Postgres policy:

  "Anyone can read bookmarks where is_public = true"

Private bookmarks don't exist in the query result. The database never
returns them. Even if there's a bug in the Next.js code, private bookmarks
cannot appear on the public page because Postgres won't include them.


THE PRIVACY MODEL — WHY IT'S DIFFERENT
---------------------------------------

Most apps protect data like this:

  User requests data → App checks if they're allowed → Returns data or error

The problem: if there's a bug in the "checks if allowed" step, data leaks.

Linkvault protects data like this:

  User requests data → Database checks if they're allowed → Returns data or error
  AND
  User requests data → App checks if they're allowed → Returns data or error

Both layers run independently. A bug in the app layer doesn't matter because
the database layer still enforces ownership. This is called Row Level Security.

The policies on the bookmarks table:

  Policy 1 — Owners:
  "You can read, write, update, delete your own rows only"
  Condition: auth.uid() = user_id

  Policy 2 — Public:
  "Anyone can read rows where is_public = true"
  Condition: is_public = true

These run for EVERY query, including direct API calls, including Postman,
including anyone who knows the Supabase URL and has a valid token.
There is no way around them except having database admin access.


HOW THE DASHBOARD WORKS
------------------------

You land on /dashboard after logging in.

The page loads three things at once (parallel, not sequential):
  1. Your bookmarks (all of them, public and private)
  2. Your profile (handle, display name, bio)

If you haven't set a display name yet, a profile setup banner appears at the top.

Search and filter runs entirely in the browser — no extra API calls.
You type, the list filters instantly. Three views: All, Public, Private.

The header shows your handle as a clickable link to your public profile
so you can always see what the world sees.


HOW SETTINGS WORKS
-------------------

You can update:
  - Your handle (checked for uniqueness before saving)
  - Your display name
  - Your bio

Handle change flow:
  → Check if new handle is already taken by someone else
  → If taken, show error — don't attempt the update
  → If free, update the profiles table
  → Revalidate both the old handle URL and new handle URL

So /@oldhandle and /@newhandle both get refreshed immediately.
(Note: old handle becomes available for others to claim after you change it)


THE EMAIL
---------

When you sign up, Resend sends a welcome email with:
  - Your public profile URL
  - A link to your dashboard

This is non-blocking. If Resend is down or the email fails, your account
still gets created. Email is a nice-to-have, not a hard dependency.

The email is built with React Email — it's literally a React component
that renders to HTML. Same developer experience as building a web page.


THE DEPLOYMENT
--------------

Code lives on GitHub.
Every push to main triggers a Vercel deployment automatically.
Environment variables (API keys, database URLs) live in Vercel's dashboard.
They never touch the codebase or git history.

Build process:
  npm run build → TypeScript checks → Next.js compiles → Vercel deploys

Takes about 45 seconds from git push to live URL.


WHAT HAPPENS IF SOMETHING BREAKS
----------------------------------

If the app crashes:
  - Static pages (landing, login, signup) still load from Vercel's CDN
  - Dynamic pages (dashboard, profile) show Next.js error boundaries

If Supabase is down:
  - Auth fails gracefully with an error message
  - No data is written or lost

If Resend is down:
  - Signup still works
  - Welcome email just doesn't arrive
  - User never knows, account is fine


THE ONE THING MISSING
---------------------

Handle renames break old shared URLs.

If you shared linkvault.app/@harsh with someone and then change your
handle to @harshthanki, their link 404s.

The fix: a handle_history table. Store every old handle with the user ID.
When /@harsh is requested and not found as a current handle, check the
history table, find the current handle, redirect automatically.

Didn't build it because time ran out. Would be the first thing added next.


SUMMARY IN ONE PARAGRAPH
-------------------------

User signs up, gets a profile, saves bookmarks. Each bookmark is private
by default. Flipping it public makes it appear on a shareable profile page.
Privacy is enforced at the database level using Postgres Row Level Security —
not just in the application code — so there is no way to read another user's
private data regardless of how you access the system. Built on Next.js,
Supabase, Resend, and Vercel. Took one weekend to build and debug to
production-ready state.
